CS 4391 Spring 2026
Assignment 2 – Image Filtering
Due Date: Mar 8th, 2026 11:59 PM
In this assignment, you will be implementing some basic filters to images and record the result
image.
Many of the algorithms you will be implementing as part of this assignment are functions
in OpenCV (Open Computer Vision Library). You are NOT allowed to use (call) these
functions in this assignment, unless otherwise specified. You may, however, compare your
output to the output generated by these functions to make sure you are on the right track.
You can choose either C++ or Python for the implementation of the program. For the given
image in this assignment, please apply the following filters and save all the output results (save
the output images):
a. A 7 * 7 box blur filter;
b. A 15 * 15 Gaussian filter;
use following code to generate the filter:
import numpy as np
import cv2
# Size must be odd
kernel_size = 15
# Sigma controls the 'spread' of the blur
sigma = 4.0
# Generate 1D Gaussian kernel
kernel1d = cv2.getGaussianKernel(kernel_size, sigma)
# Generate 2D Gaussian kernel by multiplying 1D kernels
kernel2d = np.outer(kernel1d, kernel1d)
print(kernel2d)
c. A 15 * 15 motion blur filter;
use following code to generate the diagonal motion blur filter:
import numpy as np
import cv2
size = 15
# Create a 15x15 matrix of zeros
kernel = np.zeros((size, size))
# Fill the main diagonal with 1s
np.fill_diagonal(kernel, 1)
# Normalize the kernel so the sum is 1
kernel = kernel / size
d. A 3*3 Laplacian sharpening filter;
Use the following filter:
kernel = np.array([[-1, -1, -1],
[-1, 9, -1],
[-1, -1, -1]])
e. Canny Edge detection filter:
i. Use 5*5 Gaussian Filter first to smooth the image:
ii. Use Sobel kernels:
Then calculate the magnitude and direction for each pixel.
iii. “thins" the detected edges down to a single pixel width. For each pixel, the
algorithm checks if its gradient magnitude is a local maximum in its gradient
direction; if not, the pixel value is set to zero.
iv. Thresholding
Submission Instructions:
Please submit your source code and result images to eLearning ONLY. (Do NOT submit your project or
other files)